in this video,
we'll look at a statement which effectively allows you to tell the b A to simply ignore any
errors that occur an attempt to carry on as though nothing's happened.
Although this technique is not good for general error handling,
as we'll see in this video,
it definitely has its uses.
Let's go back into the Section eight model.
Let's take a copy of the macro that we worked with in the first video.
I'm just going to copy and paste the whole thing.
A man just modify the name of the copy to be now on tutorial three.
Now that's cool.
It resume next.
So in the first video,
we discussed how you implement user friendly error handling by using the on error Goto
label.
We just use the label era handling the on air.
A resume next statement simply instructs Vehbi eh to ignore the era on going to the next
line.
Now,
of course,
this is no good for general purpose error handling,
because when an error occurs,
the user gets absolutely no feedback.
Things just don't work,
probably from the user's left,
not knowing what's going on.
Let's look at what would happen if we replaced the on air ago toe era handling with on our
resume.
Next,
let's introduce an era and watch what happens with me.
Attempt to run the macro.
Absolutely nothing.
This line fails,
so the document doesn't get opened.
And,
of course,
none of the other stuff works.
But because with the activated our handling by using on Emma on our resume next,
the user doesn't get any feedback.
They simply have a macro,
which doesn't work.
Let's on do our changes.
And let's look at a situation where on error resume next is actually useful.
Let's say that we want to cater for the possibility of the document that we want to open
already being open.
Before we perform these steps,
we can attempt to set DOC schools.
Our document variable equal to documents.
Students schools dot doc ex because we know that's the name of the document.
So I'm just gonna copy that.
Let's just put that light in and paste in quotes.
Yeah,
so of course,
this line won't execute because this document isn't currently open.
And since it's prior to the line that says on air ago to our handling V B A.
Will handle the era.
Forests safe.
I run now.
You'll see.
It tells me bad file name.
I'm when I debug,
it goes to the problem line.
So this is a situation where I can say what?
If any area does occur.
I know exactly why the error occurs.
It's because the document isn't open.
So what I can do is to say on air a resume next.
What I can then say here is if Doc Schools is nothing.
In other words,
if this line failed,
go ahead and open doc schools.
But of course,
if doc schools is not nothing,
this means that this line succeeded.
Hence,
there's no need to open dog schools.
So let's just put an if statement around this line.
Then we can tap these lines in and put.
And if and just to remind you this statement is nothing is a special statement that you can
use with objects is equivalent for a numeric variable of saying equal to zero,
or for a string variable of saying equal to the null string.
So if the variable hasn't been set,
this means that this line failed because the document wasn't open.
Hence it's appropriate to attempt to open the document.
Let me just reinstate Lee error.
If we now run the macro,
our error handling will kick in.
But this line won't actually calls a further era.
I don't know if I then take out the era that everything runs normally.
Let's just close the document and let's now reopen the document in its pristine state.
So in deep,
arcane and air handling,
we have students,
schools.
So this time this line should work ends.
This line doesn't need to be executed.
And again,
everything work smoothly and let me finish by emphasizing that on air A resume.
Next is being used here specifically to suppress errors on this line.
And it's very important that after using the statement,
you count amount the statement by using on error.
Go to our handling as a very minimum.
You should use on error.
Go to zero,
which means that at least the user has the benefits of VB,
a errors kickinin when something goes wrong instead of simply leaving them hanging.
But best practice,
obviously,
Still,
handlers yourself display user friendly error messages,
but it's very important that once you've suppressed a specific error that you know is not a
problem and that you're happy to ignore you immediately.
Reinstate proper error handling and with on error,
goto label the on air.
A resume next statement causes V B A.
To ignore way nearest that occur in an attempt to continue code execution from the next
line.
The on air Easy um next statement should only be used to suppress a single error whose
cause is known,
and it should immediately proceed the line of code,
which will generate the era.
The line of code which may cause the error,
should always be followed either by the statement on air ago 20 to reinstate VB A's default
error handling,
or preferably by on air ago toe label to reinstate your own user friendly error handling.